= Introduction =

This is supposed to be recommended coding rules.


= Variables =
== Constants ==
They must be all uppercase using underscore to separate words
<pre>
MAX_ITERATIONS
PI
</pre>

== Enum names ==

a)
<pre>
 enum Color 
 {
   COLOR_RED,
   COLOR_GREEN,
   COLOR_BLUE
 };
</pre>

b)
<pre>
 enum NetworkState 
 {
   nsOK, nsFAIL, nsWAITING_FOR
 }
</pre>



This way the mentioned "problem" is solved, but other uncomfortabilities present, such as you can not define a variable as: NetworkState MyState;.That solves the naming problem, because all of the enumerated vars should be prefixed with its struct name.


== Variable names ==
Variables with a large scope should have long names, variables with a small scope can have short names <br/>
The variable names should be descriptive enough. The variable name may be concatenation of several words. <br/>
The variable name should contain the variable type (Hungarian notation) <br/>
<pre>
 int nVaraible;
 char`*` szVariable;
 bool bVariable;
 int`*` pnVariable;
 void`*` pVariable;
 unsigned int unVariable;
 float fVafiable;
 double dVariable;
 char chVariable;
 ::std::string sVariable;
 ObjectPtr ptrVariable; //smart pointers
</pre>


=== First letter ===
First letter after the prefix is capitalized. If no prefix is present first letter is capitalized.

=== Second and next words ===
The separate words (except the first one) should start with capital letter. All acronyms (like MSISDN, IMSI, ID, etc) should be with capital letters<br/>
<pre>
 int nLongVariable;
 char`*` szMSISDN;
</pre>

== Global variables ==
<pre>
 g_ptrGlobalSmartPointer
</pre>


== Function/Method variables ==
The function/method variables should be descriptive enough. 
<pre>
 int nVariable
</pre>

== Function/Method parameters ==
The function parameter names should follow the rules for variable names.

=== Parameter names ===
The function/method parameter variables should be descriptive enough. 

Parameters should follow the same rules as variable names.
<pre>
 bool isLargerThanTen( const unsigned int& nParam );
</pre>


=== Modifiable parameters ===
The function/method could return result in one or more of the parameters. When the function/method returns the result in a parameter the parameter should be defined as
Any parameter than is not modified by a function/method should be marked as const. Parameters not marked as const should be considered to be modifiable by method. Parameters should be passed as references.
<pre>
 void ExtractInitialsFromFullName( const std::string& sFullName, std::string& sPutInitialsHere);
</pre>

= Classes =
== Class Names ==
The class name should be descriptive enough. The class name should start with capital letter
<pre>
 class Class
 class BaseClass 
 class SomeOtherClass
</pre>


== Public, protected and private definitions ==
=== Indent ===
No indent for private, protected and public specifiers 
<pre>
 class Class
 {
 private:
 protected:
 public:
 };
</pre>


=== Order of private, protected and public ===
public, protected, private

== Method names ==
The method name should start with lower case. 
<pre>
 void methodOne();
 void methodTwo();
 bool isThisObjectInitialized();
 void setMsisdn( const std::string& sNewMSISDN );
</pre>

The following prefixes can be applied:
<pre>
get:for retrieving values from object
set:for setting values of an object
is:for comparing/checking values 
</pre>

== Variables ==
The class member variables should be descriptive enough. They should  start with m_ describing the variable as member and follow above guidelines for naming variables
<pre>
 int m_nVariable1;
 char m_nVariable2;
</pre>

= if statements =
The opening bracket on the next line of if/else
<pre>
 if ( something )
 {
 }
 else
 {
 } 
</pre>

= switch statement =
== Brackets ==
The opening bracket on separate line
<pre>
 switch( something )
 {
 case 1:
   {
   }
 }
</pre>

== case position ==
The case on same level as switch, indent inside case
<pre>
 switch( something )
 {
 case 1:
   {
   }
 }
</pre>

= Brackets =
if( something ) – spaces after the opening and before the closing brackets.

= Mathematical formulas =
Spaces before and after the operator. Spaces after the opening and before the closing bracket
<pre>
 ( a + b ) / c 
</pre>

= Namespaces =
== Namespace indent ==
Variables and classes without indent
<pre>
 namespace name
 {
 class xxx
 {
 };
 }
</pre>

== Namespace brackets ==
Opening bracket on the next line
<pre>
 namespace name
 {
 }
</pre>

= Pointers and references =
== Position of the `*` and & ==
The `*` and & should be placed next to the type
<pre>
 void`*` Variable1;
 int`*` Variable2;
 char& Variable3;
</pre>

= Structures =
The structure name should start with capital letter 
<pre>
 struct Struct
 {
 };
</pre>

= Indents =
No spec for the indents, but I prefer 4 spaces. Not 1 tab = 4 spaces, but 4 spaces! Does not matter that much though.